OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
A programming paradigm centered around objects rather than functions.

According Java Point of view: Object Oriented Programming is a method of programming where code is designed and based
on the function and attributes of the objects.

variable = properties
function = methods
class = A template or a blueprint for creating objects

4 Pillars of Object-oriented Programming

1. Encapsulation
2. Abstraction
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphaism  = Poly: Many, morphaism: form


1. Encapsulation = Reduce complexity + increase reusability 
2. Abstraction = Reduce comlexity + isolate impact of changes
3. Inheritance = Eliminate redundant code
4. Polymorphaism = Refactor ugly switch/case statements


Object-Oriented Programming, or OOP, is the paradigm for modern application development. it is supported by major
languages like JavaScript, Java or C#.

Terminology

Class

Defines the characteristics of the Object.
Object

An Instance of a Class.
Property

An Object characteristic, such as color.
Method

An Object capability, such as walk.
Constructor

A method called at the moment of instantiation.
Inheritance

A Class can inherit characteristics from another Class.
Encapsulation

A Class defines only the characteristics of the Object, a method defines only how the method executes.
Abstraction

The conjunction of complex inheritance, methods, properties of an Object must be able to simulate a reality model.
Polymorphism

Different Classes might define the same method or property.



1. Encapsulation: Encapsulation is the ability of an object to be a container (or capsule) for its member properties,
including variables and methods. Or An act of combining properties and methods, related to the same object, is known as
Encapsulation.

Methods = variable

Member variables & Functions = Private:- Restricted access from outside class
Member variables & Functions = Public:- Can access anywhere through class object


2. Inheritance: Process where one class acquires properties(methods and fields) from another class.
Property, method and field. In the concept of inheritance the class from where this property is being inheritated is called either Parent Class, Super Class and Base Class. And the class where the properties, methods and fields are being inheritated is called either child class, sub class or derived class.

Parent => child
Super => sub
Base => derived

Note: extends keyword is use for inheritance


3. Polymorphism:
Poly = many
Morph = forms
Polymorphism = many forms

Polymorphism in Object-Oriented Programming is the ability to create a variable, a function, or an object that
has more than one form.


4. Abstraction: An abstraction is a way of hiding the implementation details and showing only the functionality to the
users.

> Hide Details
> Show Essentials














